What did Willy Brandt want to express when he fell on his knees in the former Jewish ghetto in Warsaw in 1970?

— He submitted to the former Allies.
— ✓ He asked Poland and the Polish Jews for forgiveness.
— He showed his humility before the Warsaw Pact.
— He said a prayer at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
Which parties were forcibly united in 1946 to form the SED, the unified party of what later became the GDR?

— ✓ KPD and SPD
— SPD and CDU
— CDU and FDP
— KPD and CSU
When was the "economic miracle" in the Federal Republic of Germany?

— 40s
— ✓ 50s
— 70s
— 80s
What did the people in Germany call “Zero Hour” for a very long time?

— This refers to the period after the fall of communism in 1989.
— This marked the start of the Second World War.
— ✓ This meant the end of the Second World War and the beginning of reconstruction.
— This refers to the hour when the clock changes from summer time to winter time.
What did the expression "Iron Curtain" stand for? For foreclosure...

— ✓ the Warsaw Pact against the West.
— Northern Germany versus Southern Germany.
— Nazi Germany versus the Allies.
— Europe vs. USA.
In 1953 there was an uprising in the GDR, which for a long time was commemorated by a public holiday in the Federal Republic of Germany. When was it?

- 1st of May
— ✓ June 17
- 20th of July
— November 9th
Which German state had a black, red and gold flag with a hammer, compass and wreath of corn?

— Prussia
- Federal Republic of Germany
— ✓ GDR
- "Third Reich"
In what year was the Berlin Wall built?

— 1953
— 1956
— 1959
— ✓ 1961
When did the GDR build the Berlin Wall?

— 1919
— 1933
— ✓ 1961
— 1990
What does the abbreviation GDR mean?

— Third German Radio
— The German Republic
— Third German Republic
— ✓ German Democratic Republic
When was the Berlin Wall opened to everyone?

— 1987
— ✓ 1989
— 1992
— 1995
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— ✓ Brandenburg
- Bavaria
— Saarland
— Hesse
From 1961 to 1989 Berlin was...

— without the mayor.
— a separate state.
— ✓ divided by a wall.
— only accessible by plane.
On October 3rd, the Day of the Germans is celebrated in Germany...

— ✓ Unit.
— Nation.
- Federal states.
— cities.
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— Hesse
— ✓ Saxony-Anhalt
— North Rhine-Westphalia
— Saarland
Why is the time in autumn 1989 in the GDR called "The Turn"? During this time, the GDR changed politically...

— ✓ from dictatorship to democracy.
— from a liberal market economy to socialism.
— from a monarchy to social democracy.
— from a religious state to a communist state.
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— ✓ Thuringia
— Hesse
- Bavaria
— Bremen
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

- Bavaria
- Lower Saxony
— ✓ Saxony
— Baden-Wuerttemberg
In the GDR, the abbreviation "Stasi" meant...

- Parliament.
— ✓ the Ministry of State Security.
— a ruling party.
— the Ministry of National Education.
Which of today's German federal states used to belong to the territory of the GDR?

— Hesse
— Schleswig-Holstein
— ✓ Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
— Saarland
Which of the following lists only contains federal states that belonged to the territory of the former GDR?

— Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, Schleswig-Holstein, Brandenburg
— ✓ Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Brandenburg, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia
— Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg, Rhineland-Palatinate, Thuringia, Saxony
— Saxony, Thuringia, Hesse, Lower Saxony, Brandenburg
To whom did the GDR belong in the "Cold War"?

— to the western powers
— ✓ to the Warsaw Pact
— to NATO
— to the non-aligned countries
What was the name of the economic system in the GDR?

— market economy
— ✓ planned economy
— supply and demand
— capitalism
How did the Federal Republic of Germany and the GDR become one state?

— The Federal Republic of Germany occupied the GDR.
— ✓ Today's five eastern federal states have joined the Federal Republic of Germany.
— The western federal states joined the GDR.
— The GDR occupied the Federal Republic of Germany.
With the accession of the GDR to the Federal Republic of Germany, the new federal states now also belong to ...

— ✓ to the European Union.
— to the Warsaw Pact.
— to OPEC.
— on the European Defense Community.
What did the word "Monday Demonstration" mean in Germany in 1989?

— In the Federal Republic, demonstrations were only allowed on Mondays.
— ✓ On Mondays there were demonstrations against the GDR regime.
— On the first Monday of the month, demonstrators met in the Federal Republic of Germany.
— On Mondays there were demonstrations in the GDR against the West.
Which military alliance was the GDR a member of?

— in NATO
— in the Confederation of the Rhine
— ✓ in the Warsaw Pact
— in the European Alliance
What was the "Stasi"?

— the secret service in the “Third Reich”
— a famous German memorial
— ✓ the secret service of the GDR
— a German sports club during World War II
What was the coat of arms of the German Democratic Republic?

- 1
— 2
— 3
— ✓ 4
What happened on June 17, 1953 in the GDR?

— the solemn entry into the Warsaw Pact
— ✓ Nationwide strikes and popular uprising
— the 1st SED party congress
— Fidel Castro's first visit
