Mrs. Seger gives birth to a child. What does she have to do to receive parental allowance?

— She has to write to her health insurance company.
— She doesn't have to do anything because she automatically receives parental allowance.
— ✓ You must submit an application to the parental allowance office.
— She has to ask the employment office for permission.
Who decides whether a child goes to kindergarten in Germany?

- the State
— the federal states
— ✓ the parents / legal guardians
- The schools
Maik and Sybille want to hold a demonstration on the street with friends in their German place of residence. What do you have to do beforehand?

— You don't have to do anything. You can demonstrate anywhere in Germany at any time.
— ✓ You must register the demonstration.
— You can't do anything, because demonstrations are strictly forbidden in Germany.
— Maik and Sybille have to found a new association because only associations are allowed to demonstrate.
What school-leaving qualifications do you normally need to start studying at a university in Germany?

— ✓ the high school diploma
— a diploma
— the procuration
- a journeyman's examination
Who is not allowed to live together as a couple in Germany?

— Hans (20 years) and Marie (19 years)
— Tom (20 years) and Klaus (45 years)
— Sofie (35 years) and Lisa (40 years)
— ✓ Anne (13 years) and Tim (25 years)
At what age do you become an adult in Germany?

— 16
— ✓ 18
— 19
— 21
Question №247: A woman is pregnant. She is given special protection by the law shortly before and after the birth of her child. What is this protection called?

— maternity leave
— childbirth preparation
— ✓ Maternity leave
— childbed
The upbringing of children in Germany is primarily a task ...

— of the state.
— ✓ of the parents.
- the grandparents.
— of the schools.
Who is primarily responsible for raising children in Germany?

- the State
— ✓ the parents
- the relatives
- The schools
In Germany you have the best chance of finding a well-paid job if you...

— is catholic.
— ✓ is well educated.
— is a woman.
— is a member of a political party.
If you hit a child in Germany, ...

— it's nobody's business.
— is it just a matter for the family.
— one cannot be punished for it.
— ✓ you can be punished for it.
In Germany …

— ✓ You can only be married to one partner at a time.
— you can have several spouses at the same time.
— one must not marry again once one has been married.
— a woman must not remarry if her husband has died.
Where do you have to register if you move to Germany?

— ✓ at the registration office
— at the registry office
— at the regulatory office
— at the trade office
In Germany, married couples are allowed to divorce. In most cases, they have to observe the “year of separation” for this. What does that mean?

— The divorce process takes a year.
— Husband and wife are married for a year, then divorce is possible.
— Visitation rights for the children are valid for one year.
— ✓ Husband and wife lead their own lives separately for at least a year. After that, divorce is possible.
Parents in Germany who have problems bringing up their children can get help from ...

— regulatory office.
— School Board.
— ✓ Youth Welfare Office.
— Health department.
A couple would like to open a restaurant in Germany. What does it absolutely need?

— a permit from the police
— an approval of a party
— a permit from the registration office
— ✓ a restaurant permit from the competent authority
An adult woman would like to do the Abitur in Germany. She can do that on...

— a university.
— ✓ an evening school.
— a secondary school.
— a private university.
What is the youth welfare office allowed to do in Germany?

— It decides which school the child attends.
— ✓ It can take a child who is being beaten or starving from the family.
— It pays the child benefit to the parents.
— It checks whether the child attends a kindergarten.
The careers information center BIZ at the Federal Employment Agency in Germany helps with the …

— pension calculation.
— ✓ Apprenticeship search.
- Tax declaration.
- Health insurance.
 In Germany, a child at school has …

— Right to unlimited free time.
— Freedom of choice for all subjects.
— Entitlement to school fees.
— ✓ Compulsory attendance.
A 30-year-old man wants to do his Abitur in Germany. Where can he do that? At …

— a university
— ✓ an evening school
— a secondary school
— a private university
 What does the principle of equal treatment mean in Germany?

— ✓ No one may be disadvantaged, e.g. because of a disability.
— You may discriminate against other people if there are sufficient personal reasons for doing so.
— No one may sue people if they have been discriminated against.
— It is the law for everyone to donate money annually to disadvantaged groups.
In Germany, young people from the age of 14 are liable to prosecution. This means: young people who are 14 years and older and violate criminal laws, ...

— ✓ are penalized.
— are treated like adults.
— share the punishment with their parents.
— will not be penalized.
For which festival do people in Germany wear colorful costumes and masks?

— ✓ on Shrove Monday
— on May Day
— at the Oktoberfest
- at Pentecost
Where do you have to go first in Germany if you want to get married?

— to the registration office
— to the regulatory office
— to the Employment Agency
— ✓ to the registry office
When does the statutory night rest start in Germany?

- when the sun goes down
— ✓ at 10 p.m
— when the neighbors go to sleep
— at midnight, midnight
Question №267: A young woman in Germany, 22 years old, lives with her boyfriend. The woman's parents don't like it because they don't like her boyfriend. What can parents do?

— ✓ You must respect the decision of the adult daughter.
— You have the right to bring the daughter back to the parental home.
— You can go to the police and report the daughter.
— They are looking for another man for the daughter.
A young woman wants to get her driver's license. She is afraid of the exam because her mother tongue is not German. What is right?

— She has to live in Germany for at least ten years before she can get her driver's license.
— ✓ She might be able to do the theory test in her mother tongue. There are more than ten languages ​​to choose from.
— If she doesn't speak German, she mustn't have a driver's license.
— She has to get her driver's license in the country where her language is spoken.
In Germany, children from the age of three until they start school are entitled to …

— monthly pocket money.
— ✓ a kindergarten place.
— a place in a sports club.
— a holiday pass.
The adult education center in Germany is an institution …

— for religious education.
— only for teenagers.
— ✓ for further training.
— only for pensioners.
