What is a Christmas custom in Germany?

— Hide colored eggs
— ✓ decorate a Christmas tree
— dress up with masks and costumes
— Put pumpkins in front of the door
Which way of life is not allowed in Germany?

— Husband and wife are divorced and living together with new partners.
— Two women live together.
— A single father lives with his two children.
— ✓ A man is married to two women at the same time.
If you have problems bringing up your child in Germany...

— to the doctor.
— to the health department.
— to the registration office.
— ✓ to the youth welfare office.
You intentionally opened a letter in Germany that was addressed to someone else. What did you not notice?

— the right to remain silent
— ✓ the secrecy of correspondence
— the duty of confidentiality
— the freedom of speech
What do you need in Germany for a divorce?

— the consent of the parents
— a doctor's certificate
— the consent of the children
— ✓ the support of a lawyer
What should you do if you are treated badly by your contact person in a German authority?

- I can not do anything.
— I have to put up with this treatment.
— I threaten the person.
— ✓ I can complain to the head of the authority.
A woman who has a two-year-old child applies for a job in Germany. What is an example of discrimination? The only reason she doesn't get the job is because she...

— does not speak English.
— has too high salary expectations.
— has no experience in this profession.
— ✓ mother is.
A man in a wheelchair has applied for a job as an accountant. What is an example of discrimination? The only reason he doesn't get the job is because he...

— ✓ is in a wheelchair.
— has no experience.
— has too high salary expectations.
— does not speak English.
In most apartment buildings in Germany there are “house rules”. What does such a “house rule” say? She calls …

— Rules for using public transport.
— all tenants in the building.
— ✓ Rules that all residents must adhere to.
— the address of the nearest public order office.
If you want to defend yourself against a false tax assessment in Germany, you must ...

- do nothing.
— throw away the notice.
— ✓ Submit an objection.
— wait until another message comes.
Two friends want to go to a public swimming pool in Germany. Both have a dark skin color and are therefore not allowed in. What right is violated in this situation? The right to …

- Freedom of speech
— ✓ Equal treatment
— freedom of assembly
— freedom of movement
Which voluntary work must German citizens take on if they are asked to do so?

— Club trainer
— Library supervisor
— ✓ Election worker
- Teacher
What do you do if you receive an incorrect invoice from a German authority?

— I'll leave the bill where it is.
— ✓ I am filing an objection with the authority.
— I send the bill back to the authorities.
— I'll take the invoice to the tax office.
What you have to be able to do for work will change very quickly in the future. What can you do?

— It doesn't matter what you learn.
— Children learn everything that is important in their job at school. You don't have to keep studying after school.
— ✓ Adults must continue to learn even after their training.
— Everyone has to stop working earlier because everything is changing.
Mrs. Frost works as a permanent employee in an office. What does she not have to pay from her salary?

— ✓ Sales tax
- Income tax
— Unemployment insurance contributions
— Contributions to pension and health insurance
Which organization in a company helps employees with problems with their employer?

— ✓ the works council
— the auditor
— the operating group
— the operational management
You would like to end your employment with a company in Germany. What do you have to consider?

— the salary payments
- the working hours
— ✓ the notice period
— the insurance obligation
At which office do you usually have to register your dog in Germany?

- at the tax office
- at the registration office
— ✓ at the municipality (city or municipality)
— at the health department
A dark-skinned man applies for a job as a waiter in a restaurant in Germany. What is an example of discrimination? The only reason he doesn't get the job is because...

— his knowledge of German is insufficient.
— he has too high salary expectations.
— ✓ he has dark skin.
— he has no professional experience.
You bought a television in Germany. At home you unpack the TV, but it doesn't work. The tv is broken. What can they do?

— write an ad
— ✓ complain about the television
— replace the device without being asked
— extend the warranty
Why do you have to write down in your tax return in Germany whether you belong to a church or not? Because …

— which is important for statistics in Germany.
— ✓ there is a church tax linked to income and wage tax.
— you have to pay more taxes if you don't belong to a church.
— the church is responsible for the tax return.
The people in Germany live according to the principle of religious tolerance. What does that mean?

— No mosques may be built.
— All people believe in God.
— ✓ Anyone can believe whatever they want.
— The state decides which god people believe in.
What is a custom at Easter in Germany?

— Put pumpkins in front of the door
- decorate a Christmas tree
— ✓ Paint eggs
— Shoot rockets into the air
Pentecost is a …

— ✓ Christian holiday.
— German day of remembrance.
— international day of mourning.
— Bavarian custom.
Which religion shaped European and German culture?

— Hinduism
— ✓ Christianity
— Buddhism
- The islam
In Germany, the last four weeks before Christmas are called...

— the Day of Prayer and Repentance.
- Thanksgiving.
— ✓ the Advent season.
— All Saints Day.
From which country did most migrants come to Germany?

- Italy
— Poland
— Morocco
— ✓ Turkey
Question №298: It was mainly migrants from ... who lived in the GDR.

— ✓ Vietnam, Poland, Mozambique.
— France, Romania, Somalia.
— Chile, Hungary, Zimbabwe.
— North Korea, Mexico, Egypt.
Foreign workers who were recruited by the Federal Republic of Germany in the 1950s and 1960s were called...

— Undeclared workers
— ✓ Guest workers
— Temporary workers
— shift workers
From which country did the first guest workers come to the Federal Republic of Germany?

— ✓ Italy
— Spain
— Portugal
- Turkey
